welcome to the man of recaps this is
arrow season 1 green arrow is a DC
superhero who fights crime with his bow
and arrow he's basically Batman mixed
with Hawkeye five years ago billionaire
Oliver Queen's yacht sunk in the South
China Sea and he spent five years
trapped on an island before being
rescued now he's home in Starling city
after a shave and a shower oh that's why
people like this show he's heir to the
mega company Queen consolidated he lives
in a mansion with his mom Moira queen
his father died in the yacht crash and
she's remarried his partner Walter he's
got a little sister Thea a best friend
Tommy Merlyn but the person he's most
excited to see is his girlfriend Laurel
ex-girlfriend because she thought he was
dead for five years also she's not happy
to see him because on the yacht
he took her sister who he was cheating
on her with and she died in the crash so
laurels doubly mad at him Amanda said
but Oliver's come back a changed man he
takes one of his companies abandoned
warehouses and builds a nightclub there
as a cover but in the basement he's
built an epic CrossFit gym he does spend
five minutes of any episode working out
and it's also his superhero secret
hideout he's come back from the island
incredibly good at archery what happened
on that island you'll be asking yourself
that for seven seasons every episode
there's a few minutes of a flashback
that reveals the mystery little by
little but the first thing we learn is
Oliver's got this notebook with a list
of names in it his father gave it to him
like hey these are all bad people you
need to survive and get home to save the
city then he shoots himself so Oliver
has enough food and water to survive so
Oliver dons the hood and roughs up bad
guys real Muller
you have failed this city threatens to
kill him if they don't give back the
pensions they stolen stuff no one calls
him arrow yet in season one he's just
the vigilante the order he goes down the
list is normally based on whatever bad
guy laurels prosecuting right now
laurels dad detective Lance hates Oliver
too and is chasing down the vigilante
but arrows always one step ahead and
gets him the evidence he needs one day
Master Assassin dead shots in town
Oliver goes to the Russian mob the
Bratva of which he's a captain what the
hell happened on this island they help
him find Deadshot and he gets his
computer and he takes it to Felicity
Smoak she's a computer genius working at
Queen consolidated he comes to her with
tech stuff and increasingly flimsy
excuses for why there's bullet holes she
helps him find Deadshot who's got a
wrist mounted gun but arrows are
stronger than guns all he takes him out
Oliver's got a new bodyguard John Diggle
hex Special Forces great guy but Oliver
keeps ditching him but this time he
managed to follow all of her but he got
shot all of her patches him up and
reveals his identity it's like hey man
you can handle yourself I could use a
sidekick it was like yo never call me a
sidekick but he joins the team the
police are hunting the vigilante and
they find security footage of Oliver
Queen's sketchily grabbing though dat
outfit so yeah he messed that one up
pretty fast but it was all according to
plan he throws a giant I'm going to jail
party and while all those witnesses see
him here he has Diggle put on the hood
and conspicuously beat up some bad guys
across town
so while suspicion of Oliver is cleared
one day Oliver's mom almost gets shot in
a drive-by
she's fine though turns out the target
was the mob guy next to her someone's
taken out the Bertinelli crime family
it's a hot chick Huntress she's actually
Bertinelli's daughter Helana her father
had her fiance killed so now she's out
for a revenge
long story short Oliver takes her under
his wing and then under his dick and
they have a superhero team-up arrow and
the Huntress but he's like hey we're not
gonna kill your father we're gonna send
him to jail she's not okay with that she
wants to kill him
so arrows got a stopper and they break
up next all of her sister Thea gets into
trouble with the new drug in town
vertigo it's made by chemist slash drug
dealer the count so called because he
dresses like a vampire from Lost Boys
but also because he stabs people with
vertigo leaving like bite marks long
story short arrow tracks him down and
stabs him with his own medicine
that much Vertigo's not a good high it
messes up his brain makes him crazy
speaking of Theo one day she gets her
purse snatched by a robber she tracks
him down and Oh turns out he's really
hot so they start dating his name is Roy
and he has a big part in season two
watch out one day Walter notices some
discrepancies in counting he finds a
warehouse where Moira queen has the
remains of the Kraft yacht what is she
up to
turns out she's working with the bad guy
he is Malcolm Merlyn
Tommy Merlin's dad she's like Walter
please stop investigating for your own
good
but he doesn't listen hand gets
kidnapped Malcolm's like don't worry
Moira I won't hurt him as long as you
stay loyal to the undertaking right now
Merlin's concerned about the vigilante
because the list of names he's going
through is their list of names so Merlyn
sends out his own Archer with black
arrows Oliver has Felicity track him
down and with the power of her windows
touchscreen and a Bing search she can do
literally anything pretty soon she joins
team arrow officially it's difficult for
her to get work done with Oliver working
out non-stop this would be a hostile
work environment if he wasn't so damn
hot anyway arrow tracks down the dark
Archer and they have a bow and arrow
battle but Oliver gets hit this guy's
better than him he gets his butt kicked
and barely makes it out alive who is
this guy
turns out it's Malcolm Merlyn himself
what now the season is 23 episodes so
there's a ton of random one-off villains
I won't mention most of them end up
dying but many keep coming back like the
Huntress her dad's being moved to
witness protection so she wants to kill
him before he's gone for good
arrow comes to stop her again and so
does detective McKenna Hall who Oliver
has been banging but the Huntress shoots
her and gets away she survives but they
break up
then one day verdict goes back on the
streets the count is definitely insane
turns out it was his psychiatrist who
found the formula and has been producing
it he comes after arrow with the tiniest
possible knife it does not work out for
him then dead shots back in town turns
out he's the one who killed John
diggle's brother Diggle goes to his
special forces ex-wife who works for
Argus they try to catch Deadeye but fail
so he's still on the loose and now back
to the main plot Merlyn shows Moira that
Walters still alive but arrow bugged the
office and here's everything he now
knows Merlin's the bad guy his mom's in
on it and turns out the yacht sank
wasn't an accident his dad tried to stop
the undertaking
so Merlin put a bomb on it that's a good
a segue as any to recap season one of
the island Oliver met an old Asian man
there Yao Fei who helped him survive at
the beginning but Oliver got captured by
a mercenary group they're led by a guy
named fires and they're looking for Yao
Fei Oliver doesn't give him up so this
guy in a crazy - face mask tortures him
for a while eventually they capture Yao
Fei and they have his daughter - so he
cooperates
Oliver escapes and finds the crashed
plane where he meets Slade Wilson Slade
is a badass Australian Special Forces
dude - face mask I used to be his
partner they were sent here to rescue
Yahweh but everything got messed up so
he starts teaching all of her sword
fighting and they bust into the camp he
kills his old partner and they rescue
Yao Fei and daughter her name is shadow
and she teaches Oliver archery starting
with slapping bowl of water to make your
hands strong enough anyway they're all
captured again and we learned fiers is
working for some mysterious woman his
mission is to start a war by shooting
down a passenger plane and he needs
yeowwww Fei to take credit for it as a
former member of the Chinese army as
soon as he finishes the video fires
shoots yeah they know Oliver escapes
just in time to reprogram the missile
missed the plane and blow up the whole
mercenary camp it comes down to a final
arrow shot foreshadows life and Oliver
makes it yeah they're still trapped on
the island though so back in the present
Oliver busts into where Walter is being
held he proves that daredevil is not the
only one who can do an awesome hallway
fight he rescues Walter but Walter is
like he'll girl whatever you're into got
me kidnapped I think that's grounds for
a divorce then all of her fake kidnaps
himself with diggle's help to get his
mom to spill the beans about the
undertaking turns out they're going to
level the glades the bad part of town
with an earthquake machine Merlin's wife
was killed there in a mugging so now
he's deranged Moira queen warns the city
about it she's like hey Merlin's the bad
guy he was forcing me to help but she's
still under arrest for now the arrow
pays a visit to Merlyn but doesn't know
he's an insane badass he gets his butt
kicked and then he's tied up in the
sexiest way possible luckily this is his
daily workout so he escapes no problem
they meet on the roof for a final
archery battle and he does the trick
from the first Avengers where he hits
him with an explosive arrow stabs Merlyn
through his own shoulder and
is dead or is he they find the
earthquake machine and managed to disarm
it but there was a second one oh no The
Glades is getting earth quaked Laurel
lands up trapped under some rubble but
Tommy Merlyn comes to save her there's
been a whole huff triangle thing because
she and Oliver still love each other but
she's been dating Tommy but at the end
she had Oliver get back together
it's Tommy who saves her now though but
then who he's trapped under rubble and
he's got a thing through the heart
but when arrow can't fix this Oliver's
best friend dies in his arms
so arrow failed to save the city the
glades is leveled his best friend's dead
and that's how season 1 comes to an end
[Music]